=== Transcript ===
why am i Hindu the obvious answer to this question is of course that it's
because I was born one most people had little choice about the faith they grew
up with it was selected for them at Birth by the accident of geography and their
parents cultural moorings but what does being a Hindu mean many of us began
having to interrogate ourselves in the late 1980s when the world media first
began to speak in right of Hindu fundamentalism this was odd because we knew of
Hinduism as a religion without fundamentals no founder or prophets no organized
church no compulsory beliefs or rites of worship no uniform conception of the
good life no single sacred book my Hinduism was a lived faith it was a Hinduism
of experience and our bringing a Hinduism of observation and conversation not
one anchored in deep religious study though of course the two are not mutually
exclusive but none of these constitutes an obligatory credo for a Hindu there
are none we have no compulsory dogmas this is of course rather unusual a
Catholic is a Catholic because he believes Jesus was the son of God who
sacrificed himself for men a Catholic believes in the Immaculate Conception and
the virgin birth offers confession genuflection church and is guided by the Pope
and a celibate priest children a Muslim must believe that there is no god but
Allah and that Muhammad is His Prophet a Jun cherishes is Thor our pentatonic
and his Talmud a Parsi worships at a fire temple a Sikh honors the teachings of
the Guru Granth side above all else there is no Hindu equivalent to any of these
beliefs there are simply no binding requirements to being a Hindu not even a
belief in God but another reason for my belief in Hinduism is for lack of a
better phrase its intellectual fit I'm more comfortable with the tenets of
Hinduism then I would be but those are the other faiths of which I know I have
long thought of myself as liberal not merely in the political sense of the term
or even in relation to principles of economics but as an attitude to life to
accept people as one finds them to allow them to be and become what they choose
and to encourage them to do whatever they like so long as it does no harm to
others is my natural instinct as a Hindu I can claim adherence to a religion
without an established church or priestly papacy a religion as rituals and
customs I'm free to reject a religion that does not oblige me to demonstrate my
faith by any visible sign my substitute is subsuming my identity in any
collectivities not even by a specific day or time or frequency of worship there
is no Hindu Pope no Hindu Vatican no Hindu Catholicism not even a Hindu Sunday
as a Hindu I follow a fit that offers a veritable smorgasbord of options to the
worshipper of divinities to adorn and to pray to of rituals to observe or not of
customs and practices to honor or not or fast to keep or not its capacity to
express wonder at creation and simultaneously skepticism about their missions of
the Creator are unique to Hinduism both are captured beautifully in this verse
from the 3500 year old Rig Veda the NASA diya sucked all the creation him who
knows whence this creation had its origin he whether he fashioned it or whether
he did not he who surveys it all from the highest heaven he knows or maybe even
he does not know maybe even he does not know I'd love a faith that raises such a
fundamental question about known as a Supreme Being than the creator of the
universe himself [Music]

=== Characters Per Line ===
Line  1: 3464 characters

=== Summary ===
Hinduism is a religion without fundamentals no founder or prophets no organized
church no compulsory beliefs or rites of worship. There is no Hindu equivalent
to any of these beliefs there are simply no binding requirements to being a
Hindu not even a belief

=== Video Link ===
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=330hPz8iLi4
