=== Transcript ===
closer to India um Bangladesh the subcontinent we've seen um a lot of political
changes over there a lot of violence over there and a several reports of attacks
on minorities um is the United States concerned about the situation there and
the need for stability at all levels not just political stability yeah of course
the the longtime unfortunate persecution uh and killing and abuse of religious
minorities Hindus Buddhists Christians Catholics and others has been a a major
area of concern uh for the United States government and of course uh president
Trump and his administration uh the talks are just beginning between uh
president Trump's new cabinet coming coming in uh and the government of
Bangladesh but this continues to remain a central Focus area of concern once
again with the threat of islamist terrorists and uh their overall effort the
global effort of all of these different groups that are really rooted in their
same ideology their same objective which is to rule and govern with uh an
islamist caliphate uh this obviously affects people of uh any other religion
other than one that they find acceptable and they choose to carry this out
through very violent and terroristic means uh president Trump remains committed
once again uh to identifying this ideology that drives islamist terrorism
helping to defeat that ideology and defeat their ability to exact that Terror on
people the American people and others right

=== Characters Per Line ===
Line  1: 1438 characters

=== Summary ===
Bangladesh the subcontinent we've seen a lot of political changes over there. A
lot of violence over there and a several reports of attacks on minorities. The
U.S. is concerned about the situation there.

=== Video Link ===
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qkKLYH89ShA
