🔗 URL:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Tg9i_wpH80

📜 TRANSCRIPT:
they told that woman should not expose themselves in front of men their beauty should only be seen
by their husbands otherwise allah will punish them they interpreted islam to me in such a way that i
could i i should con i should and um think in a in that way that is how they were uh interpreting
this this should be the final decision this is the ultimate truth islam is the ultimate truth and
allah is the only one god to be worshipped and i should follow strictly what muhammad done in his
lifetime and what what the muslim woman should do in in her lifetime that i should do namaste
religious conversions are not new to india people have converted from sanatana dharma to other
faiths for a multitude of reasons may be monetary sometimes due to lack of answers in their own
faith uh and sometimes due to coercion in today's interview we'll talk to three lovely women who
have traveled the full circle to understand their journey through other faiths and back to sanatan
dharma they are all a part of aarsha vidya samajam an organization based in tirunanthapuram with a
very important mission of educating people about sanatana dharma our first guest is shruti she is
the first woman pracharika at asha vidya samajam dedicating her life to the mission of taking
sanatana dharma to the world she returned to sanatana dharma eight years ago through this
organization after converting into and practicing islam for five years she has also authored a book
in malayalam detailing her experience our second guest is anagha jagopal she is a physiotherapist by
profession and leads the creative team at our samajan coming from a very conservative hindu family
anika converted to islam going to a void that is common in hindu dharma and the way it is practiced
today having practiced islam for six years she came back to sanatana dharma through our shamatha our
third guest today is vishali shetty she was once an agnostic and she turned into an islamic
sympathizer and she returned to sanatan dharma through aarsviya samajan having been convinced of the
magnitude of the mission that the samajam has undertaken she chose to be a sanatan dharma pacharika
with abs with her prior experience in it she drives the technical and marketing activities at abs
shruti anagha and vishali very very warm welcome thank you so much for joining us thank you deepti
so shruti and anika will start with you how did your conversion out of sanatan dharma happen first
of all uh i would like to thank infinity uh to giving such an opportunity to speak in front of the
large audience uh to speak about my experience to speak about mother my mother organization thank
you again and the question was question is how how the experience happened in my life and how i
could come back uh yeah i i was born in a brahmin family having brahmin family in castro district of
kerala since childhood as i i won in the brahmin family i underwent different different rituals lots
of rituals i uh i had to i could see but i could attend but i was uh unaware about its scientific
reasons scientific things behind the rituals ceremonies everything since childhood itself i heard a
questioning minding me and i used to ask elder people what is the uh science behind it what is story
behind all these rituals all these ceremonies which we are conducting here in our home or in temples
or in any other relatives home center but uh unfortunately as uh brahmin caste is full of
restrictions towards the women why i don't know uh why people are restricting such things from women
ah i had to experience such restrictions my father was saying no no women are not have the right to
a question like this uh whatever things is uh practicing from our ancestors whatever our ancestors
are were doing that we we are doing also and we are not supposed to question that what uh we have to
follow that only that was uh i was getting answer that time and uh later on when my parents or i i
won't i won't blame blame my parents because they don't know uh what the thing is uh because their
elders didn't teach them so they they they also in same situation what i'm experiencing so i i have
no right to blame them so this was happening so my parents and the elders were uh are in the opinion
that uh ladies or women are not supposed to question or women are not supposed to learn vedas or
they are not supposed to pronounce where the mantras like that so later on i got a fear in my mind
to ask questions because these restrictions uh these objections everything and scalding also i was
getting so i stopped asking the questions kept in my mind unanswered and uh later dude when i was
watching uh omna shivaya and like television serials were don't know i i was knowing about something
about hinduism just only through these television serials only the concept of god or anything like
that i was knowing just because of this television series so when i was watching those series i was
i used to ask why uh parvati devi and all other goddesses are called as mother why shri paramishra
is not called as father he is called just like prabhu why it is so so i got an answer from my elders
that in hinduism we can call any woman mother but we can't call any uh male or any gentleman as
father we can call only one person as father uh that is what i that is the conservative thought i
got uh i got as answer so i couldn't continue the questioning and all those those questions kept in
my mind and time went uh i um i stopped asking everything these questions were in my mind and i was
experiencing causticism somewhere in my family and my my father was a little bit uh cast conscious
and uh i heard i draw i grew up hearing we are brahmins and we are not like we are hindus i never
heard such a word in anywhere i i came to know about this in the name hindu only when i fill up with
any uh school or any uh application forms we can feel that uh what is your religion the question we
will fill hindu then only i'll use that name i didn't i never heard such a word in my life till i
come to uh so likewise time went during my graduation period unfortunately uh in my ba literature
class the english literature class there was full of muslim classmates i had that muslim girlfriends
okay so from them i got this islamic influence and they taught me what is islam by the very first i
hadn't any notion about the conversion and all but uh they used to ask my con my about my religion
about the concept of god in my religion they used to ask why you people are having these much of
gods and why you are worshiping a monkey god why you are worshiping elephant head god likewise lots
of questions they asked uh as i am ign ignorant about all these things i couldn't answer properly so
uh it generated a type of inferiority complex in me and anyhow i try to ignore ignore their
questions ignore them but i could ignore only people the questions which uh all they asked uh were
in my mind so the questions i had since childhood again came to my mind and it it began to haunt me
uh gradually i i i could i was thinking that i am not getting any answer for all these questions i
am not able to answer for all these questions so um there is no system in my good system in my
mother religion there is no facility to know all these things so this is our simply based likewise i
was thinking they made me think like that by interpreting different inter interpreting in a wrong
way about hinduism and they began to teach their religion they began to give me pamphlets books
series of speeches of this religion regarding or islamic religion topics like that time went the
studies went on and i was thinking that islam is the uh ultimate truth and my ques my quest to know
about truth is going to fulfill by learning about islam likewise i was feeling that time because
already they uh understood me my concepts my viewpoints regarding that i i hadn't uh i was not a
person uh believing in lots of uh so many goals i was believing in a single god uh i never uh i
never felt that in its uh that single god's name is allah or any other name but i i was uh in such a
view that there is only one god and other my uh my my viewpoint on women was very high that uh women
are not supposed to suppress women are not supposed to downtrodden they they should they should get
equal status uh in society with men they should get equal status uh the atrocities everything is
happening towards women i i was against to those all things so they interpreted islam to me in such
a way that i could i i should con i should [Music] think in that way that is how they were uh inter
interpreting that was similar to similar to my viewpoints that is how they interpreted so finally i
thought this is the final uh this this should be the final decision this is the ultimate truth islam
is the ultimate truth and allah is the only one god to be worshipped and i should follow strictly
what muhammad done in his lifetime and what what the muslim woman should do in in her lifetime that
i should do and i should be the very uh perfect believer uh very perfect follower of islam uh
likewise i was thinking my brain went like that my i my thoughts uh changed to in that way so i
began to do namas i began to practice rose i began to do rosa likewise it went on later i came to
know from my friends and colleagues i i was teacher also after prost in pasteurization i i was
teaching in uh for into three muslim management schools from the students and colleagues helped me
to learn about islam and my from my colleagues and uh some from some students and from my friend a
few muslim friends and from some texts i came to know that uh if my namas and rosa should be
accepted uh i should accept islam legally so i decided to uh go out from my home and i done the same
i went out from my home uh lying in my home with my parents and i joined in panani manutel islam
sabha eight years back and it is in malapram district it is also called as mini mecca and i went
underwent two months course the islamic course from there also i was getting i was getting teachings
which is against our country they were teaching me like not only to me but the all students who were
undergoing that islamic course they were teaching like this is not our country this is the country
of hindu people here hindu hindus are only residing our countries uh saudi arabia were where
muhammad prophet muhammad born and brought up we uh we are supposed to live there then only we can
live perfect as a perfect muslim woman likewise they were teaching so i was during that time i was
thinking that i have to go out from india i have to go saudi arabia countries uh and i have to
preach islam till my last breathe i have to convert my parents my entire family likewise my mission
was that time i decided to live like that so to for islam i i i was ready to do anything if i have
to kill a person for islam if i have to kill a person if he is against islam i am i was ready that
was that much my brain was that much brainwashing was happened towards me and during that time my
parents put a missing complaint in my native place and with the help of uh police and some native
people uh they could identify me that i i i'm learning islam there in pannani so with the help of
police that uh brought me back from there and uh in front of in court also in front of magistrate i
thought i have to go back to panani i have to live like a woman i have to learn islam more and all
my parents should come likewise i was saying but my parents situation was very pathetic if i didn't
say that for just for two days i will go with my parents my parents would have died that moment
itself there was a bottle in my father's hand during i was speaking with the magistrate that bottle
was poison bottle so if i if i said something against that that i i now itself i have to go to
punani again my father would have drunk that person and i would have lost my parents that moment
itself so maybe because of the uh the good deeds done in my uh earlier birth i could say that for
just for two days i will go with my parents that two days changed my life they took me to uh an
astrologist from uh from him they got an advice that make her vomit and some drinks they gave me
some medicinal drinks i drunk i vomited but the con the ideologies which is uh what influenced my
mind kept on there itself something by what i ate at the morning time that went out that much only
they thought that some black magic happened on me uh to the viewers and to the all eyes i would like
to say what is learned is when learned will be kept itself in our brain vomiting will not uh be a
solution for that and please don't take someone to any astrologist or any uh such ayurvedic
treatment like that if someone is caught under custody of any islamic preachers like that okay and
after that my parents with the help of some hindu organizations uh while i was coming to ashradyas
some people who who are bringing me to here were very um in a very a lot lots of things they were
speaking they were saying that ah is an institution there all people are changing and um there is
then uh there is an azaria there like that he is a great personality he could bring that lot of
people uh he could change lots of people's life and he have such power and likewise they were
interpreting him they were explaining about him describing about him then i decided i i should meet
him who is that person i should meet him and i would like i would be great if i could change uh the
uh that person himself to islam that is what i felt that time so i was waiting to meet acharya
manoji uh to convert him to islam at that time unfortunately but now i feel fortunately i met him
and i told him don't call me i very arrogantly i behaved towards you know manoji and our guruji i
told don't call me as shruti call me like rahmat it is my name and i accepted islam and i i would
like to speak with you only based on quran only i don't want to listen to your vedas and all this
all the all these things are not my religious textbook all these things are haram to me i don't want
to listen about that i would like to speak about uh quran only that is what i said that time with
the very not like this but very arrogantly very patiently very calmly he smilingly he told okay uh
if you would like to call you like if if you would like uh call you like rahmat i'm ready to call
you a call rahmat no problem uh name doesn't matter please with the patience you listen and you
speak and as a human being you think not like a blind believer of islam or blind follower of islam
not like a blind criticizer of islam not like in that state you just as a human being listen and
speak show the patience to listen and show the patience to speak likewise he advised me that time
again uh ishvara's hands began to work behind from behind me i think and i could listen to him and
he never advised me never taught me anything he just made me read quran again as a human being that
was that much he done that time he told me uh each verses from quran he showed and told me just read
it just read it as a human being and use your intellect and use your reasoning power and compare
with uh the concept of god as a human being you might you may be having a concept of god and compare
it with that that moment i was feeling that the i was i was having a concept earlier my friends and
colleagues everyone were interpreting or concept regarding islam ideology ideologies regarding islam
everything similar to my concept but what is written in the religious text like quran is entirely
different woman i i was having a respect to respect towards women and the woman is uh pictured in a
different way in a in a what i what is what i say in a downtrodden way my memory is correct in
chapter 2 223 is the women are compared to uh agricultural land how pathetic it is i was feeling and
my my ego was not agreeing to not allowing me to agree what acharya is saying i tried to argue with
him but uh he again showed patience okay leave about that verse like let us see about the what is
further written in that so one by one verses he made me read and i could realize what wrong i did
during my islamic belief and all was i i got influenced to islam i done a lot of uh bad deeds
towards hinduism i used to speak in temple courtyard when my parents told compelled me to go to
temple i went to temple without any uh without any uh what i say any believe or any uh any affection
towards temple or any affection towards hinduism i stood in front of shiva linga thinking that it is
not a idol it is just a stone or it is symbol to uh male genital uh part likewise i was thinking
they interpreted like that no so i was thinking that like that i scolded once my mother i beaten my
mother once just because she is coffer and i don't want to eat food from kafir's hand she compelled
me to eat that too she prepared with love and care what is i like what is my favorite food that is
she prepared and with love and care she gave me i i opposed it and i beaten her also and when she
compared me to pray i argued with her i screamed with her i shouted with her lots of things happened
during that time when islamic beliefs was uh undergoing that that time during that time later when i
realized that all these things i did just for this fake uh inhuman religion it was very uh pathetic
my situation that time if i say the uh only because of my our guruji come back to life just for a
moment i thought to suicide also if i went to my home into my native place that time i would have
done suicide at least or else i would have already i am a sinful person now so why should i live
with a good people or in a good religion i should live a sinful life ahead that that much my mind uh
disturbed and mentally i was that much uh in in such a situation so that moment our guruji and other
teachers in our videos uh and ash vidya samaj mandi's courses here everything helped me to come back
to uh sanatana dharma and the hard work uh our guruji and all other teachers are doing made me uh to
think why should i uh put my steps backward i should move from more ahead i why should i change my
decision of preaching truth to the people i realized what is truth this is the ultimate truth that
is sanatana dharma the everlasting uh dharma which is given by lord sri paramishra and through rishi
paramparas why should i uh think that as or usually all people think i got rescued and i should live
with my parents why should i think like that i should come forward because there are lots of women
lots of people are uh day by day uh converting to such really such fake religions why should i allow
them they are all my parents all my sisters and brothers they are all my family members why should i
learn vasudeva if i am not ready to practice that why should i learn why should i uh why did i learn
lokas if i'm not ready to practice that so i should practice i should come forward i should be with
our guruji and he have a mission to spread sanatana dharma to the entire make the entire universe
noble through filling noble persons how can this possible only through understood realize that
people uh come from in front to only if if such people coming in front then only people can
understand lots of women and sisters are there we not only women our ancestors are there who are
under clutches of these black religions i would like to call as a black evil we have to save them
for that we have to preach what is the real sanatana dharma ideologies as swami vivekananda told
years back there should be a time when uh sanatana the ideologies rules and uh philosophies
everything related to sanatana dharma should reach to the each and every hindus either it be rich
people either it would be a poor people that doesn't matter but each and every hindu uh each and
every hindu human being's heart should be filled with these ideologies related to sanatana dharma
philosophies related to sanatana then only we can say that we are hindus so that should be filled
fulfilled only through this completing this mission of our acharya so that moment i requested him
please accept me as your disciple and i would like to be with you as other disciples with you and i
should be i i would i i like to be a shadow of you likewise i requested him he objected a lot he
don't know it is not supposed uh it is not a good path to a woman like a girl like you there are
lots of opportunities waiting for you you are educated you you may get a good salary basic job you
are you have experience like a teacher you can go out you can live with your parents likewise he uh
advised a lot he suggested a lot maybe uh yeah uh what what should i say he was testing my about my
decision maybe i don't know uh still now but whatever he said he told me you you have future you go
with your parents uh lots of proposals will come you can marry you can live like others you go
likewise say advice but i was not in a such a mind that i need a marriage i should live with my
husband and children everyone thinks like that no nobody is thinking like this nobody's thinking uh
to spare their life for others so i decided that time that all advices came towards me like boosting
my decision i told him no i don't want any marriage i don't want to leave such a leaf i would i
would like to be a shadow just like other disciples are shadows to you i would like to be with you
to fulfill your mission i would be i would like to be a full-time uh worker here in ashwithya so
from then onwards i am here it is happening 80 years and i am happy and content yeah thank you so so
much rupees that uh thanks so much for sharing that very personal journey uh so it's really really
commendable that you've uh so you've always been a seeker right and we can see that there was a void
in our faith so you had you always had questions and because of lack of answers you had to and you
you were at that time seeking answers and then wherever you at that point found some answers you
moved to that state so i think you're doing a very important mission of you know providing those
answers to seekers right now through our shaviya samajam and helping people understand and know
about uh our dharma in general so thank you very much for sharing your story uh so uh we'll uh i'll
let's move to anaka and we'll come back to you uh would you uh we'd love to know how your journey
happened out of the dharma and back into it as well uh thank you infinity foundation for giving us
an opportunity to share our experiences uh i am from trishur kerala i was born into an orthodox
brahman family from the very young age itself i grew up seeing a lot of rituals that doesn't make
any senses to me whenever i questioned about this my parents used to say that just because our
ancestors had done this we are also following the same obviously i was not satisfied with their
answers i completed my school days from a convent school hence i grew up with the misconception that
all religions are one after that i did my higher secondary studies in a government school there i
came to know that during fridays all government schools offer muslim students an extra one hour for
their jumannamas i was still wonder why this kind of a bias even from a government's goal i thought
that there should be something special in this religion and i i had a curiosity to know more about
it i also noticed that my muslim friends had a good knowledge and strong commitment to their
religion so i tried to know more about islam at that time i hadn't any intention to convert islamic
ideology influenced me strongly during my college days i still studied physiotherapy from
arunachalam i was staying there in a hostel and most of my roommates were muslims during casual and
formal conversations religion also became our topic they asked me many questions for which honestly
i don't have answers like why do you have so many gods why are you worshiping storms and idols why
ganapathi is having elephant's head is human hanuman is hanuman a monkey so and so i got confused
and i asked these questions to my parents and relatives but i didn't get any satisfying answers so i
started to study more about hinduism from internet the videos i watched had contents like atma
paramatma brahma which was beyond my grasp i couldn't see any sources in the internet which gives us
a satisfying answers about hinduism slowly i came to the conclusion that there is nothing right in
hinduism at the same time my friend started to share the ideology of islam this said it was the
religion of peace and muhammad is the last prophet and only guide for the whole humanity they
boasted about their holy book the quran that it is 1400 years old and it has lots of scientific
facts which the world is realizing now no one had the power to change it that it will be protected
by allah till the end of the world they also shared me the videos of shakin like emma mugman etc to
slowly convert me to islam they also introduced me about the heaven and hell and also the idea of
covering my body and head they told that woman should not expose themselves in front of men their
beauty should only be seen by their husbands otherwise allah will punish them so at the end of four
years i was totally brainwashed and i decided that i definitely will convert and then the
environment where i walked was also favorable for my islamic studies and also practicing prayers and
all to some of my close patients when i revealed the idea of converting they seem to be very happy
and they also promised me all kind of help they offered me financial help and even some of them even
told they are ready to marry me the fear of torments of hell increased day by day and after two
years of my career life i decided to convert i resent from my job and went to my home i told my
parents and sisters that i'm going to convert i even tried to convert my little sister and my
parents and sisters were shocked to see the change in my behavior and dressing it was actually the
worst six months of my life i changed completely i started to do numbers in my home i got irritated
whenever i missed my numbers i stopped singing dancing watching movies hearing songs even i forgot
to smile i was afraid of everything that even if i do a small mistake allah is going to punish me
cruelly some of the hindu activists came to know this and they connected my parents with ashvidhya
saramaja and thus i came to worship their samara with my sisters first two day teachers of
ashvidesham spoke with me i understood the foolish theory of islam to a certain extent but was not
completely satisfied and on the third of the day acharya shri kian manoji founder and director of de
samajana directly spoke with me with valid proof from the quran and hadees on that day i realized
how dangerous is the concept of islam and the glory of hindu dharma and the day itself i decided to
dedicate my own life for sanadana dharma and became the full-timer of arshwa dhyasa mahajan only by
coming to ashwider samajam and meeting ajariji i realized my mistake i was amazed with the knowledge
ajariji had in this in each subject through his knowledge and observational research ajarji created
a syllabus for the study of sanadana dharma which is simple as that a small child about five years
also can understand the concept and uh after that i realized the greatness of this uh mission of
ashville samajam to spread the sanatana dharma all over the world and i dedicated my life to fulfill
ajahraji's mission thank you so much so how did your family uh react when you converted was there
any opposition like how did you handle that actually they were broken and my parents were at the
wardrobes we said they cried in front of me that please don't go away that if i go they will uh
surely they will do suicide but their words and tears uh doesn't even change my decision i said this
is the right path this uh this is the path that everyone should follow if you are not following this
i'm not responsible for your faith i was a demon in my decision and nothing could change me that too
uh that was actually intolerant to my parents and they were broken completely so uh how long were
you in the islamic faith how long were you actually i have been studying about islam for the five
years and for the last one year after signing my job i was in home and that time i was completely
living as a muslim woman like my dressing was changed i was wearing hijab i was doing namas and i
completely avoided hearing songs tvs watching movies i was a dancer i completely dropped dancing
singing everything i was completely living like a ideal islamic woman so what was it that actually
kind of triggered you to start coming back or was there an event or what was it that made you want
to listen to guruji at abs uh actually uh while i was uh stepping out of my home to uh that is uh
coming to ashwajim before uh coming to australia i told my parents that after i get out from
asheville either i will be complete hindu or a complete muslim i can't live in between that so uh
and i also said that i'm ready to accept the truth i have no problem to accept the truth whatever
but it should be uh logical and it should satisfy my questions that was only condition i uh applied
before coming to australia so when i came here uh first of all uh aji talked to me about quran and
hadees uh he explained about muhammad prophet muhammad and his deeds everything and i understood the
illogical things and scientific facts everything in the quran i accepted but still i have so many
doubts about sanatana even i asked them and i got very satisfying logical answers from ajariji and
slowly uh he told that why archevis is functioning and he told that uh is uh functioning uh or it is
uh mainly to spread the sanadana dharma all over the world it is the mission of our s and i
understood that it is this how much important in this world that that sanatana dharma should exist
and i uh became the part of uh ashrae de samajam and i want to dedicate my own life to ajariji to
fulfill his mission thank you so uh do you know of any other uh a person that was converted like is
this a real issue do you think it's very uh widely spread uh actually uh before coming to our chevy
de samajam uh i thought it is not not much serious issue because every indian citizen have the right
to choose the right decision right so i uh i didn't think that it uh is a serious issue but after
coming to arshad savage i understood that conversion is undoubtedly a serious issue to be more
precise conversion to semantic religion is definitely a serious issue the separatist movements in
the northeastern states of india the condition of pakistan afghanistan bangladesh which were once a
part of us are proof to this once someone has converted the language of logic humanity science etc
becomes irrelevant to them what muhammad made forbidden is unlawful to them and what muhammad made
permissible is halal or lawful to them they have no other metric if muhammad had done something then
they have no hesitation to follow his example unfortunately muhammad has such a very bad example
this is clearly indicated in the quran hadees seerah tariquel islam and other authentic texts of
islam and the history and the current day happenings are also evidence to this that is why uh
tsunami vegan had rightly said that conversion of a person into any semitic religion is not just
laws of one person but the generation of an enemy itself and um we have seen so many cases of
conversion that lead to extremism and terrorism and how the converting turns against not just his
family but against the society culture dharma and the nation itself and becomes intolerant that is
uh that's a very interesting point so i have a lot of friends that are muslims but i i don't find
them being so against hinduism or anything but like you mentioned people who get converted become
more radical do you know why that is like have you observed that as well [Music] actually uh the
thing i want to say that is if a muslim is be behaving good to you good to other religion people
then he had uh he hadn't studied quran perfectly an ideal muslim can't be tolerant to other religion
because an ideal muslim is the one who follows everything each and everything what muhammad does
what uh muhammad this and so if they are following what muhammad does they can't be tolerant to
other religion i'm saying that if you are friends that that are good to you they are not reading
quran or they are not following quran perfectly that's why so uh based on your experience how and
where does conversion happen see christians have sunday schools and they also have systematic
courses to teach their religion and also muslims have madrasas where they are uh properly teaching
their students about their religion but uh when we come to hinduism we can say that we are not
having any systematic syllabus or systematic courses to uh teach our students about what hinduism is
or a real sanatana dharma is that is the main problem we are facing uh from my experience i can say
that only because of the uh unawareness of my religion my sanadana dharma is the only thing that led
me to the study of islam or to the conversion that's a great point uh mainly because of lack of
answers in our own religion we start looking outside and however false the answers might be on the
in the other region at least there is some answers that they provide and uh this becomes a way for
people to you know get converted as well yeah thank you so much it was very insightful i'm very
happy to introduce the vishali shetty vishali shetty was once an agnostic who was drawn strongly
towards islam vishali returned to sanatana dharma through aashiviti samajam having been convinced of
the magnitude of the mission that vidya samajam has undertaken she chose to be a sanatana dharma
pracharika with abs with her prior experience in it she drives the technical and marketing
activities of abs welcome vishali thank you thank you dpg so give us a little bit about your
background uh how and when uh did you get inspired to join abs um yeah so since you spoke in detail
about their experiences and my experiences to my experience too is on the same line so let me tell
you very briefly i was born in a so called uppercast hindu family with a deep rss background and
like all hindu families in general i grew up without any systematic education about my dharma i was
a hindu because i was born into the family i didn't know what it meant uh i saw customs and itself
all around me and if i asked my parents the significance of them they didn't have answers to it uh
they said that it has been followed throughout the generations and we have to follow them i found
many customs unnecessary like making huge offerings to deities and all that and uh school days
during my school day since my friends were from diverse hindu cultures and not very practicing
themselves i grew up to be an agnostic and by the time i had reached college i had started
questioning and seeking an absolute answer surprisingly i observed that in college the muslims and
christians grew more radical day by day usually we think that the more educated you are the less
religious or more less radical you become and you become more progressive but on the contrary uh
what i noticed that in my college probably it's the case with many colleges but in my college itself
christians and muslims grew more radical day by day those who had who used to dress very
progressively during the start of college had started covering themselves in hijabs and workers by
the end of college and they started discussing religion with their classmates and friends and they
started being more more disciplined about their prayers friday prayers etc uh if we had uh any uh
many of our muslim classmates took time off on fridays a certain time off on fridays to go to a
nearby mosque and pray and they had an excuse for that so all this was happening in during my
college and since i always had a spiritual longing once i completed engineering i uh went on to work
in an iit company and most of my immediate colleagues were muslims so since i had questions in mind
and through uh in the course of my discussions with with them i uh started to get answers from them
uh i mean started to get answers from them which seemed to suit my questions seem to sort what i was
looking for in the way they presented it it is not right but the way they presented it seemed to
suit what i was looking for like in islam they say there's only one god the customs are uniform
wherever you go in the world the customs are universal throughout the world and all that so that
seemed to uh convince me a lot and i started uh getting drawn towards islam slowly during my uh
working days and that's how my inclination into islam happened and i wanted to learn it in more
detail and uh i had started following uh i mean i'd started becoming a little anti-hindu at my home
it was noticeable uh i started avoiding praying at home avoiding praying before uh idol at home and
things like that so eventually i got in touch with asha vidya samajam and once i spoke to uh acharya
shrikiya manoji he was able to give me convincing answers to all the questions that i was looking
for and what seemed to be right about islam uh were what you see were those baseless arguments he
was able to uh you know dissect and in and show that they are false they are not what they are uh
presented to be uh very nice yeah so all those fallacies that i believed about islam to be true were
broken once i uh came to ashwaviya samajam and i was convinced uh that what i had believed in so far
about islam was wrong and i started studying about sanatana dharma and that's how i came back to
sanatana dharma through asha vidya thank you so much for sharing that uh so let's uh dive into some
of the current affairs uh you must have heard of the recent conversion bill that's been discussed in
karnataka and also other parts of india do you think this next year what do you think about it is
there a need for such a bill uh the anti-conversion bill uh is necessary we don't say that it's not
necessary but i think uh the bill might to a small extent make the conversion forces a little
vigilant but it could also discourage conversions achieved through money and other adornments but
what we think is the brainwashing strategies are very intense and deep and most of the conversions
these days are more intellectual and ideological which are achieved through brainwashing and if we
don't adopt a counter stand to it what we can call as deep brainwashing or anti-indoctrination the
bill will not do much good not just that if this bill is passed then all steps taken to bring back
our brothers and sisters who have converted from hindu dharma into other religions also could be
seen in a bad light right we can't bring back people who have converted from hindu dharma into islam
or christianity so we are not sure what provisions the bill has for that though and the vested
interest could easily claim that reconversion into sanatana dharma is illegal so in such a situation
we won't be able to rescue our people who got trapped due to religious conversion so we are a little
uncertain as to how effectively this bill can help in fighting conversions that are achieved through
brainwashing and through love trap the only long-lasting solution is to have the right awareness
about these religions and about sanatana dharma that is very well said it's a double-edged sword
right so i think the best long-term solution uh would be to educate and make our people aware of the
the real depth of the dharma itself which is what you are doing yes okay not just learning about
sanatana dharma we have to study about other religions also only then we'll be able to bring back
doing a comparative study of all religions without a biased mind a very objective example of all
religions is essential uh especially like that crucial age where people are asking questions and uh
they want some cancer i think that is the right age group that we could use yeah it has to start as
early as about four or five years of age because if you see christians or muslims they start
ingraining their ideology from a very tender age say three three and a half years they have their
madrasahs in sunday schools which uh impart systematic knowledge about their religions right or
wrong that is a different question but they have knowledge about their religion and by the time they
turn uh adolescence or by the time they reach high school or college they are they stand firm by
what they believe in very true uh so how is abs helping with this uh help us understand what are all
the different uh means in which you are trying to uh educate yeah so at arsha vidya samajam we have
adopted an ideological approach which is based on bhartiya taraka sastra we engage the individual in
question in debates we engage the individual in debates based on the religious ideology they believe
in or have converted into so say suppose somebody is converting into islam or has converted into
islam the debate with them is based on the quran and the hadiths i mean the authentic scriptures put
forward by islam so these are these debates are based on the arguments put forward by these
respective religions or ideologies and their authentic religious books we disprove their claims
using the intellect and ishwara buddhi that god has naturally gifted all of us with we give them an
insight into the histories and background of these ideologies and through this itself they'll
realize the rights and wrongs of what they believe in this is called comparative religion we dissect
other religions unbiasedly just like dpg said just now not based on the claims of its followers or
ruthless critics but from the text that they themselves claim to be authentic that is using which is
uh accept what is right and reject what is not right that's how we guide them back and then we teach
them sanatana dharma and in order to unmask their fallacies a very extensive study and research is
necessary that's what ashaviya samajam does so is this uh do you have times with schools or how do
you actually spread this message right now we are an independent institution uh we are based in
trivandrum we have for the past we were we established in 1999 and for the past more than 22 years
we've been functioning out of rented premises we don't have a center of our own so we are
functioning from the limits of these premises we had we have courses on different levels which we
offer for students who come here to study but after the corona situation we have been providing
these quotes online and offline also so we conduct camps courses etc but we are planning to do it
more extensively by uh making more courses available for people throughout the world in different
languages yeah so vishali uh everyone that we spoke to today uh shruti anaka and you have all uh
reconverted from islam back to sanatana dharma do you have any uh estimate about christianity like
that christianity also is an equally proselytizing religion so what is the percentage of people or
girls that have converted to christianity and back uh the pg although the rate of conversions into
christianity is higher in the neighboring states like tamilnadu but throughout kerala christianity
has created a benign reputation about itself that is they have generated many crypto christians out
of hindus through their various service activities like hospitals their convent education etc which
means such people still have hindu names but they are christians they basically living as christians
they call themselves christians and they have the christian missionaries have brought in a
significant shift in many hindus that they uh have started now visiting churches instead of temples
like uh instead of hindus visit churches instead of temples it has become so common now and another
striking fact is that in most of these conversions into christianity the whole family itself
converts so see if one member any one member from a family converts others from the family will want
to try to bring them back but if the whole family converts there's nobody to bring them back there's
nobody attempting to bring them back so that is the case that is what happens with christianity so
yet we have been able to bring back more than 500 people in all our in our experience so far who had
converted into christianity and two of them are our full-time pracharikas now one of them is shanti
krishna she has written a book describing her experience of converting into christianity and how she
returned to sanatana dharma through asha vidyasamajam this is her book it's titled reborn and we
have do it with many such cases and most of them were highly educated and from affluent families we
had doctors engineers scientists teachers many such people who converted to christianity so the
point here is christians are attempting mass conversion in fact they are converting more vigorously
than the muslims are and when whole families convert it is difficult to bring them back so in order
to overcome this we have to create an organizational network reaching up to the grassroot levels so
as to be able to reach every home and bring back families who convert in mosque i think that's the
only way we can prevent christian conversion so if you look at the conversion demographics uh the
south is definitely more converted to abrahamic religions than the north despite the region being
relatively safe from invasions in the past millennia so what do you think accounts for this why are
the hindus in the north not converting at the same rate than the ones in the south uh we can't say
that uh conversion rate in uh north is not as much as in the south because we shouldn't forget that
the north has faced a lot of conversions the formation of afghanistan pakistan bangladesh itself is
a result of religious conversions right a huge part of north india was lost due to conversions and
even today we are starting to lose parts of northeast india due to religious conversions in many
rural areas of the north christian missionaries are actively converting people by associating with
the naxal groups so it would be unjust to say that north is relatively safe from conversions uh not
before too late the north is also heading towards a great stock but of course since the hindus in
the north are in general more aware and since there are several states whose governments are
favorable to hindus the conversion forces haven't been able to intensify their activities in the
present scenario because uh both due to the central land their state government and the atmosphere
of partition and symbols of muslim invasions can be seen in the villages of north india even now so
they're still uh vigilant and they're still aware hence they haven't been able to grow their power
that's what we can say uh coming to the south the states of kerala tamil nadu andhra pradesh and
telangana in particular haven't come to the national forefront they are in opposition with the
national mainstream and the christian missionaries and caste politics have played a huge role in
this that is creating a separatism between the center and the state so uh and hindutva is yet to
reach these states and its real hindutwise yet to reach these states they have faced the harmful
consequences of conservatism and caste supremacy also these southern states especially kerala tamil
nadu andhra and telangana and uh yeah similarly naxalism communism atheism have distanced people
from blending with the national mainstream but we have to remember that when the north was facing
the dire consequences of conversions it was the south that showed the right way that is the
revolution led by israel originated from the south the shiva siddhars who had taken proactive steps
to overcome the influence of jainism and christianity the siddhas of tamil nadu who were successful
in converting even the christian missionaries into hindu dharma but sadly today due to lack of
knowledge about our rich history and hindu awareness missionaries are able to easily convert hindus
and the only permanent solution is to create the right awareness amongst our people and organize
them very true so cast for better or worse is a lived reality in india so do you know if conversions
are happening within specific varnas or jatis if so why uh conversions are not probably in the olden
days it might have been but uh see jaati it's a social reality you can't uh escape that right now it
has its advantages and disadvantages but it is high every time we get rid of discrimination based on
caste supremacy and feelings of caste inequality because it has always been detrimental that it has
always been detrimental to us however uh the unity of certain caste based associations is helping
and resisting religious conversions to a certain extent some religious some caste based associations
are helping to a certain extent but religious conversions are to be overcome through the right
awareness about sanatana dharma but since such a changes still make still making a beginning at
least until then these associations are often often able to prevent their people from converting
into other religions which is a good thing but this is uh this shouldn't be misused beyond a certain
extent we have to bring in unity based on caste and which i mean we have to bring in unity beyond
caste and which is based on ishira guru parampara and sanatana now coming to the trend of conversion
people who are getting converted are not from any particular everyone is equally vulnerable
irrespective of whether they belong to so called uppercase or lowercast not just dhati conversions
are taking place regardless of educational background profession regardless of everything basically
anybody is equally vulnerable to conversion these states these days it has reached such an alarming
stage now that's uh that's very true i had a very curious question like have you seen conversions
happen between islam and christianity like a muslim converting to a christian faith or the vice
versa we have we have seen cases of christians converting into islam you might know the case of
sonia sebastian from kerala who converted into islam and she eventually joined the is she is now in
the is that is the case of conversion from christianity to islam however conversions are happening
between all religions say hinduism to islam islam to christianity christianity to islam between
basically between all religions but the uh proportion of it is very less the highest number of
conversions is from hinduism into other religions yeah because i think uh like you mentioned uh
hindus are low hanging fruit uh because we ours are so usually connected to our faith we don't know
where to go for answers and uh that makes it uh yeah very easy for us to you know get drawn to other
faiths as well so thank you so much the difference is very huge yeah very clear difference is very
huge and also i think uh do you think there is also an element of like political power involved like
uh if someone were to try to convert out of one of the abrahamic faiths into another abrahamic faith
uh there would also be some political power at play that would prevent it or do you think that not
just political yeah not just political power their religious system itself prevents somebody from
converting into another religion for example in islam they have strict uh they have they have a
strict uh role that no i mean there is a concept that anybody who leaves islam or somebody who
converts out of out of islam is called a murder and murder can be killed anywhere and any means can
be used to kill them so anybody who abandons his faith uh is no i mean anybody who becomes non-
muslim should be killed and that uh fear of being killed that fear of being oppressed by his society
or his uh people keeps people from converting out of islam versus we don't have anything like that
right that and that i think by nature shows the open and accepting nature of sanatana right right
thank you so much vishali this was very very informative and uh thank you so much for sharing your
experiences and also what ashvidyan samajam is doing uh so let me move to shruti now shruti i know
that you had mentioned you've written a book about your experiences could you tell us a little bit
more about what motivated you to write this book and a little bit about the book itself the whole
experience of mine is explained in the book and when i converted to islam i was having what i say i
was hate i was having hatred towards my uh mother religion our hindu dharma sanatana and uh i was
having hatred towards our country our nation and uh i i told you that earlier when they were
teaching me at purnani uh that this is not our land this is the land of hindu people likewise they
taught uh it increased and i i was thinking to move away from our nation and i was having very uh
what i say uh hated towards our culture and the uh cultural heritage of our bharat likewise all
these came to uh all these hatred and angry and uh intolerance every every negative approach towards
our nation our culture our history and our um dharma everything came to me and attacked my mind and
brain just because of the ideology which is caught me right so there are lots of people under
clutches of these islamic ideologies or semitic ideologies and standing against to their uh family
standing against to the nation standing against to the ideologies philosophy of everything uh what
um origin here in our bharat and what or what all things are related to bharat and the culture of it
and what is all things related to dharma of people who convert to semitic religions all of a sudden
changing their attitude and becoming uh arrogant enemies to all these things why all these things
happening all of a sudden that should be known to all people that all people should understand this
is not a people in islam or people in christianity who makes ham to the society it is the ideology
which harm the human being i won't blame any isis terrorist i won't blame any taliban people because
all these taribanis and all these isis people are under clutches and all are brainwashed by all
these ideologies so this ideology is the wrong one and nobody is supposed to accept that for that
what we should do we should expose what is the reality why all this conversion and everything
happening because people don't know what is the real islamist and what is real sanatana dharma in
other side why our sanatana dharma is eternal and what is the real uh ideologies and philosophies
and concept of god concept of life in our sanatana dharma that should be known to all people and
what our ancestors our riship emperors did in our bharat how they could achieve to achieve success
in spreading sanatana dharma and how how we are living in bharat like hindus very safely because of
their bravery and because of their hard work all these things all these history all these
philosophies everything every people should know so for that experienced fellow should come in front
so this inspired me and i thought to explain i thought to tell my story to the entire world so only
i wrote uh this book i was having guilty uh i told you know why while i was following islam what
what all things i was doing uh spitting in front of temple courtyard beating my mother and lots of
lots of things against our dharma he was a very uh bad way interpreting shiva linga's shiva linga
and other idols in our hindu dharma so i have to do i had a repentance in my mind so i have to do
something to my society i have to do something to my dharma i did wrong i have to correct i i should
work in a correct path my guruji showed me a right path rightwards path i have to do something right
to us to others i realized the truth and i should make others to realize i should help them they
also had they why all these conversations are happening just because we are unaware about our
darshanas we are unaware about our histories we are making role models we are learning histories
like alexander the great in history in school education college education we are learning alexander
the great how he became great he is he is from outside india there is no people there is no man in
india who are who are qualified deserve to be called as heroes we are uh calling watch superman and
spiderman like movies why don't we make them watch panipath and and why why don't we uh make them
watch real heroes of our bharat lots of heroes are there why don't we make uh teach our children uh
to make rani patmini rani janshi rani to make their role models they were glorious brave warriors we
have to teach them no so what should we do we should expose the reality what is the real face of the
religion of peace so called peaceful religion and there is no peace at all and what is reality
regarding sanatana dharma this all things are misinterpreted and this is the truth that we have to
say for that experienced ones you should confront so this inspired me and so i wrote my book story
of reversion thank you thank you so much i think everyone should read this book uh to understand and
this book comes from experience so it's not just theoretical uh by reading so you've actually
practiced both the fates so thank you so much for uh yeah i i explained how i could convert to islam
and hi how i could come back to sanatana dharma i was getting all the answers for the questions i
was having since i don't know so all those questions got answered and that whole thing i explained
in this narrated in this so both side is there very nice thank you [Music] you

📝 SUMMARY:
Religious conversions are not new to india people have converted from sanatana dharma to other
faiths for a multitude of reasons may be monetary sometimes due to lack of answers in their own
faith. In today's interview we'll talk to three lovely women who have traveled the full circle to
understand their journey through other faiths. Aarsha vidya samajam is an organization based in
tirunanthapuram with a very important mission of educating people about sanatana dharma. Shruti is
the first woman pracharika at the organization dedicating her life to the mission. Vishali shetty
was once an agnostic and she turned into an islamic sympathizer and she returned to sanatan dharma
through this organization. Aarsviya samajan has been convinced of the magnitude of the mission that
the samajam has undertaken. She chose to be a sanatan dharma pacharika with abs with her prior
experience in it. She drives the technical and marketing activities at abs. Since childhood itself i
heard a questioning minding me and i used to ask elder people what is the science behind it.
Unfortunately as brahmin caste is full of restrictions towards the women why i don't know uh why
people are restricting such things from women. i had to experience such restrictions my father was
saying no women are not have the right to a question like this. "My parents and the elders were uh
are in the opinion that uh ladies or women are not supposed to question" "I got a fear in my mind to
ask questions because these restrictions uh these objections everything and scalding also i was
getting so i stopped asking the questions" "Because their elders didn't teach them so they they they
also in same situation what i'm experiencing" In hinduism we can call any woman. called as mother
why shri paramishra is not called as father he is called just like prabhu why it is so so i got an
answer from my elders that in hinduist. we can calls any woman mother but we can't call any uh male
or any gentleman as father. We can call only one person as father uh that is what i that is the
conservative thought i got. "i am ign ignorant about all these things i couldn't answer properly so
uh it generated a type of inferiority complex in me and anyhow i try to ignore ignore their
questions ignore them but i could ignore only people the questions which uh all they asked uh were
in my mind so the questions i had since childhood again came to my mind"  began to haunt me uh
gradually i i i could i was thinking that i am not getting any answer for all these questions. i was
not a person uh believing in lots of uh so many goals i was believing in a single god. i never uh i
never believed in a god. "I felt that in its uh that single god's name is allah or any other name
but i i was in such a view that there is only one god and other my uh my my viewpoint on women was
very high" "I thought this is the final uh this this should be the final decision" "i should follow
strictly what muhammad done in his lifetime" i joined in panani manutel islam sabha eight years back
and it is in malapram district it is also called as mini mecca and i went underwent two months
course the islam course. i came to know that if my namas and rosa should be accepted uh i should
accept islam legally. "I have to preach islam till my last breathe i have to convert my parents my
entire family likewise my mission was that time i decided to live like that so to for islam," she
says. "I was ready to do anything if I have to kill a person if he is against islam i am" "My
parents situation was very pathetic if i didn't say that for just for two days i will go with my
parents my parents would have died that moment itself" "If i if i said something against that that i
i now itself i have to go to punani again my father would have drunk that person and i would have
lost my parents" In an earlier birth i could say that for just for two days i will go with my
parents that two days changed my life they took me to uh an astrologist from uh from him they got an
advice that make her vomit and some drinks they gave me some medicinal drinks i drunk i vomited but
the con the ideologies which is uh what influenced my mind kept on there itself something by what i
ate at the morning time that went out that much. Only they thought that some black magic happened on
me uh to the viewers and to the all eyes i would like to "He is a great personality he could bring
that lot of people uh he could change lots of people's life and he have such power and likewise they
were interpreting him" "I told him don't call me as shruti call me like rahmat it is my name and i
accepted islam and i i would like to speak with you only based on quran only" All these things are
haram to me i don't want to listen about that i would like to speak about uh quran only that is what
i said that time with the very not like this but very arrogantly very patiently very calmly he
smilingly he told okay. "As a human being you think not like a blind believer of islam" "I was
feeling and my my ego was not agreeing to not allowing me to agree what acharya is saying i tried to
argue with him but uh he again" "I was having a respect to respect towards women and the woman is
pictured in a different way in a in a what i what is what i say in a downtrodden way" One by one
verses he made me read and i could realize what wrong i did during my islamic belief and all was i i
got influenced to islam. i done a lot of uh bad deeds towards hinduism. i scolded once my mother i
beaten my mother once just because she is coffer and i don't want to eat food from kafir's hand.
During that time when islamic beliefs was undergoing that that time during that time later when i
realized that all these things i did just for this fake uh inhuman religion it was very uh pathetic
my situation that time if i say the uh only because of my our guruji come back to life just for a
moment i thought to suicide also if i went to my home into my native place that time i would have
done suicide at least or else i am a sinful person now. "Why should i change my decision of
preaching truth to the people?" "There are lots of women lots of people are uh day by day converting
to such really such fake religions why should i allow them" "I should be with our guruji and he have
a mission to" "Why should I learn vasudeva if i am not ready to practice that?" " spread sanatana
dharma to the entire make the entire universe noble through filling noble persons how can this
possible only through understood realize that people uh come from in front to only if if such people
coming in front then only people can understand lots of women and sisters are there" "I requested
him please accept me as your disciple and i would like to be with you as other disciples with you
and i should be" "He objected a lot he don't know it is not supposed uh it's not a good path to a
woman like a girl like you" "Lots of proposals will come you can marry you can live like others you
go" With my husband and children everyone thinks like that no nobody is thinking like this nobody's
thinking uh to spare their life for others so i decided that time that all advices came towards me
like boosting my decision i told him no i don't want any marriage i don’t want to leave such a leaf
i would i would like to be a shadow just like other disciples are shadows to you. i was born into an
orthodox brahman family from the very young age itself i grew up seeing a lot of rituals that
doesn't make any senses to me whenever i questioned about this my parents used to say that just
because our ancestors had done this we are also following the same. moved to that state so i think
you're doing a very important mission of you know providing those answers to seekers. During my
higher secondary studies in a government school there i came to know that during fridays all
government schools offer muslim students an extra one hour for their jumannamas. i was still wonder
why this kind of a bias even from a government's goal i thought that there should be something
special in this religion and i i had a curiosity to know more about it. i hadn't any intention to
convert islamic ideology influenced me strongly. i got confused and i asked these questions to my
parents and relatives but i didn't get any satisfying answers so i started to study more about
hinduism from internet the videos i watched had contents like atma paramatma brahma which was beyond
my grasp. slowly i came to the conclusion that there is nothing right in h Hinduism at the same time
my friend started to share the ideology of islam this said it was the religion of peace and muhammad
is the last prophet. The fear of torments of hell increased day by day and after two years of my
career life i decided to convert. the heaven and hell and also the idea of covering my body and head
they told that woman should not expose themselves in front of men. their beauty should only be seen
by their husbands otherwise allah will punish them. "I was afraid of everything that even if i do a
small mistake allah is going to punish me cruelly some of the hindu activists came to know this and
they connected my parents with ashvidhya saramaja and thus i came to worship their samara" "On the
third of the day acharya shri kian manoji founder and director of de samajana directly spoke with me
with valid proof from the quran and hadees on that day i realized how dangerous is the concept of
islam and Ajariji created a syllabus for the study of sanadana dharma which is simple as that a
small child about five years also can understand the concept. "i dedicated my life to fulfill
ajahraji's mission" "This is the path that everyone should follow if you are not following this i'm"
"I have been studying about islam for the five years and for the last one year after signing my job
i was in home and that time i was completely living as a muslim woman like my dressing was changed i
was wearing hijab i was doing namas and i completely avoided hearing songs tvs watching movies" "I
was a demon in my decision and nothing could change me that too that was actually intolerant to my
parents and they were broken completely" i applied before coming to australia. be complete hindu or
a complete muslim i can't live in between that so uh and i also said that i'm ready to accept the
truth i have no problem toaccept the truth whatever but it should be uh logical and it should
satisfy my questions. i got very satisfying logical answers from ajariji. Before coming to our chevy
de samajam i thought it is not not much serious issue because every indian citizen have the right to
choose the right decision right. After coming to arshad savage i understood that conversion is
undoubtedly a serious issue. Once someone has converted the language of logic humanity science etc
becomes irrelevant to them what muhammad made forbidden is unlawful to them. "If muhammad had done
something then they have no hesitation to follow his example unfortunately muhammad has such a very
bad example" "Conversion of a person into any semitic religion is not just laws of one person but
the generation of an enemy itself" "People who get converted become more radical" An ideal muslim is
the one who follows everything each and everything what muhammad does what uh muhammad this and so
if they are following what mu Muhammad does they can't be tolerant to other religion. i'm saying
that if you are friends that that are good to you they are not reading quran or they're not
following quran perfectly that's why so based on your experience how and where does conversion
happen.  vishali shetty was once an agnostic who was drawn strongly towards islam. She returned to
sanatana dharma through aashiviti samajam. Vishali chose to be a sanatana Dharma pracharika with abs
with her prior experience. Vishali was born in a so called uppercast hindu family with a deep rss
background and like all hindu families in general i grew up without any systematic education about
my dharma i was a hindu because i was born into the family i didn't know what it meant. i found many
customs unnecessary like making huge offerings to deities and all that and uh school days during my
school day. By the time i had reached college i had started questioning and seeking an absolute
answer surprisingly i observed that in college the muslims and christians grew more radical day by
day. Those who had who used to dress very progressively during the start of college had started
covering themselves in hijabs and workers by the end of college and they started discussing religion
with their classmates and friends. "i started uh getting drawn towards islam slowly during my uh
working days and that's how my inclination into islam happened and i wanted to learn it in more
detail" "i'd started becoming a little anti-hindu at. happening in during my college and since i
always had a spiritual longing once i completed engineering" "All those fallacies that i believed
about islam to be true were broken once i came to ashwaviya samajam" "i started studying about
sanatana dharma and that's how i came back to sanatana Dharma through asha vidya" "I started
avoiding praying at home avoiding praying before uh idol at home and things like that" Anti-
conversion bill in Karnataka is necessary. Bill might to a small extent make the conversion forces a
little vigilant but it could also discourage conversions achieved through money and other
adornments. Most conversions these days are more intellectual and ideological which are achieved
through brainwashing and if we don't adopt a counter stand to it the bill will not do much good.
"The vested interest could easily claim that reconversion into sanatana dharma is illegal so in such
a situation we won't be able to rescue our people who got trapped due to religious conversion so we
are a little uncertain as to how effectively this bill can help in fighting conversions that are
achieved through brainwashing and through love trap" i think it has to start as early as about four
or five years of age because if you see christians or muslims they start ingraining their ideology
from a very tender age. At arsha vidya samajam we have adopted an ideological approach which is
based on bhartiya taraka sastra we engage the individual in question in debates.  debates are based
on the arguments put forward by these respective religions or ideologies and their authentic
religious books. We disprove their claims using the intellect and ishwara buddhi that god has
naturally gifted all of us with. We give them an insight into the histories and background of these
ideologies and through this itself they'll realize the rights and wrongs of what they believe in.
ashaviya samajam is an independent institution based in trivandrum. It was established in 1999 and
for the past more than 22 years we've been functioning out of rented premises. After the corona
situation we have been providing these quotes online and offline also so we conduct camps courses.
Christianity also is an equally proselytizing religion so what is the percentage of people or girls
that have converted to christianity and back. shruti anaka and you have all uh reconverted from
islam back to sanatana dharma do you have any uh estimate aboutchristianity like that. More than 500
people in all our in our experience so far who had converted into christianity. Two of them are our
full-time pracharikas now one of them is shanti krishna. Most of them were highly educated and from
affluent families. Doctors engineers scientists teachers many such people who converted to.
Christians are attempting mass conversion in fact they are converting more vigorously than the
muslims are. When whole families convert it is difficult to bring them back so in order to overcome
this we have to create an organizational network reaching up to the grassroot levels. i think that's
the only way we can prevent christian conversion. A huge part of north india was lost due to
conversions and even today we are starting to lose parts of northeast india due to religious
conversions in many rural areas of the north christian missionaries are actively converting people
by associating with the naxal groups. bangladesh itself is a result of religious conversions right.
The states of kerala tamil nadu andhra pradesh and telangana in particular haven't come to the
national forefront. They are in opposition with the national mainstream and the christian
missionaries and caste politics have played a huge role in this. Cast for better or worse is a lived
reality in india so do you know if conversions are happening within specific varnas or jatis if so.
conversions are not probably in the olden days it might have been but uh see jaati it's a social
reality you can't uh escape that right now. Some religious some caste based associations are helping
to a certain extent but religious conversions are to be overcome through the right awareness about
sanatana dharma. People who are getting converted are not from any particular everyone is equally
vulnerable irrespective of whether they belong to so called uppercase or lowercast.  conversion
these states these days it has reached such an alarming stage now that's very true i had a very
curious question like have you seen conversions happen between islam and christianity like a muslim
converting to a christian faith or the vice versa we have we have seen cases of christians
converting into islam. Highest number of conversions is from hinduism into other religions. There is
a concept that anybody who leaves islam or somebody who converts out of out of islam is called a
murder and murder can be killed anywhere and any means can be used to kill them so anybody who
abandons his faith should be killed. very easy for us to you know get drawn to other faiths as well
so thank you so much the difference is very huge. Vishali: When i converted to islam i was having
what i say i was hate. I was having hatred towards my mother religion our hindu dharma sanatana and
 our country our nation. I think by nature shows the open and accepting nature of sanatana right
right. i was thinking to move away from our nation and i was having very uh what i say uh hated
towards our culture and the cultural heritage of our bharat likewise all these came to uh all these
hatred and angry and uh intolerance every every negative approach towards our nation our culture our
history and our um dharma everything came to me and attacked my mind and brain just because of the
ideology which is caught me right. People should understand this is not a people in islam or people
in christianity who makes ham to the society. It is the ideology which harm the human being. People
don't know what is the real islamist and what is real sanatana dharma in other side. "I was having
guilty uh i told you know why while i was following islam what what all things i was doing uh
spitting in front of temple courtyard beating my mother and lots of lots of things against our
dharma he was a very uh bad way interpreting shiva linga's shiva Linga and other idols in our hindu
dharma so i have to do" There is no man in india who are who are qualified deserve to be called as
heroes. We are calling watch superman and spiderman like movies. Why don't we make them watch real
heroes of our bharat lots of heroes are there. We should expose the real face of the religion of
peace so called peaceful. This is the truth that we have to say for that experienced ones you should
confront so this inspired me and so i wrote my book story of reversion. religion and there is no
peace at all and what is reality regarding sanatana dharma this all things are misinterpreted.